# VirtualMachine
A simple compiler and virtual machine developed for a fictitious, limited functionality variant of the programming language Go. This project encompasses all the phases of compilation from lexical analysis, parsing, translation to virtual machine generation. The code however, currently works fully for Integer data type only.


# A virtual machine to run the compiled machine code that's generated by this application for a given program in GO--.
The following functionalities have been implemented:
• input (of integers only)
• output
• conditions (nested too)
• loops (nested too)
• arithmetic

This new programming language GO-- have basic features to print data, read data, take input from user perform arithmetic operations and compressions of value. Currently, it supports only integers to store the data. A brief description of main elements thke makes up the language is as follow:
1. Basic type of data: integer .
2. Keywords:
  a. Decision statement: if elif else
  b. Looping statement: while
  c. Read data statement: in
  d. Function declaration statement: func
  e. Write data statement: print (print and remain on same line), println (print
  and move to next line)
3. Arithmetic Operators: + - * /
4. Relational operators: < <= > >= = /=
5. Comments: /* enclose comment in */
6. Identifier: a letter followed by any number of letters or digits
7. Numeric constants: only integers
8. Variable declaration Operator: :
9. Literal constants: a letter enclosed in single quotes.
10. Strings: only used in print statements(no need to declare variables for them)
11. parenthesis, braces, square brackets
12. Aassignment operator: :=
13. Input operators: >>
14. semi colon, colon, comma

# Input Interface
On starting the program asks for file path.Extension for file should be .go. Example input.go is a text file containing any sample program written in Go--. Note that input.go can be replaced with name of any other text file,containing GO-- source code.
